- One of the core tenets of security
especially in a software development shop
is understanding and mitigating your risks.
An entire course could be devoted to risk management
for software teams.
But for this course,
let's take a quick look at the basics.
While I would like to convince you
that you should test every possible scenario
on every release,
the reality is that this isn't possible in most businesses.
There just isn't enough time in the day
to write or execute every test.
If you could write them all,
execution then becomes an issue for most teams
as long build and development cycles
are really an anti-pattern in today's processes.
To address this problem,
focus on the high-risk areas
and determine where to get the most reward.
You'll see an immediate value
from automating the mitigations and testing
for these high-risk areas on each release.
You will have immediate feedback
to your team and stakeholders
that the software you are delivering
is not exposing you to these risks
or at the very least not increasing your exposure.
Understanding risk isn't only about testing them.
If a software development team can identify the risks
earlier in the process,
more emphasis can be applied
to requirements, design, and development.
In software development,
we've repeatedly learned that cost savings of fixing issues
earlier in the process is significant.
While the team engages in understanding risks together,
the awareness of these risks penetrates every job function.
When you truly incorporate this model of identifying risks
early in your development process,
your entire team, your project, and your budget benefit.
Imagine for a moment you're a developer
who understands the risk exposure of your application.
You can then question requirements
and evaluate design decisions that include these risks.
More importantly,
armed with knowledge of secure coding and risks,
you can provide more tangible feedback on code reviews.
Understanding your risk is not static however.
Risk must constantly be evaluated and updated
to match not only the changes in your functionality,
but also the changes in the environment around you.
Everyday, new attacks are discovered,
new reasons for being attacked develop,
and new information is obtained.
My suggestion is to leverage
a portion of your regular planning sessions
to discuss these new risks and do it as a team
and apply these changes to your risk register.
Always keep in mind that the goal of secure coding
is not just about the bytes.
It's an overall culture that you're trying to create.
Understanding risks moves you closer
to improving the security culture in your organization.